# Introduction to Git Commands

## Assignment 3.2
- Explain what is GitHub Authentication and how what methods available to be implemented?
- Update the Readme file to contain least 15 github commands and what are the usage of them?
- What are the 4 Github commands that you think you will use the most in the real project and why? Explain it on the readme file.

In short, GitHub Authentication can consist of 2 components:
- the user login and password
- Two-factor authentication (2FA) optional but recommended

Username and password forms the first layer of authentication to gain access to your github account. Subsequently Two-factor authentication (2FA) is an extra layer of security.

In GitHub, this second form of authentication is a code generated by an application on your mobile device or it can be
sent as a text message (SMS). When you have enable the 2FA, GitHub generates an authentication code any time when someone
attempts to sign into your account on GitHub.com. The only way someone can sign into your account is if they know
both your password and have access to the authentication code on your phone.

One reason is because a person may have links his Github account with his/her organisation. For example, it is important to protect the organisation sensitive information and prevent any malicious modifications to the repositories that can compromise privacy and security. 


The following below are the 15 commands and its usages:
`git version` Check git version and verify installation.

`git init` Initial a new Git repository. It creates a new '.git' directory in the  directory. This folder is neccessary for git to work.

`git config` Check git configuration.

`git status` Displays the current state of the working directory.

`git clone` Clone from remote to your local repository.

`git add` Add a new file in staging.

`git commit` Commit your changes after a git add .

`git push` Push your changes to the remote repository.

`git log` To shows history of all commits and status of your remote and local repository.

`git reset` Uundo the changes in your working directory and get back to a specific commit while discarding all the commits made.

`git rebase` Change or edit the base of your branch from one commit to another from a differnet commit.

`git pull` update the version of a repository from remote to local.

`git branch` Lists all branches.

`git checkout` Switch to another branch in your working directory.

`git merge` Merge the specified branch into current one.


In a devops project, these are some of the basis steps as follows:
- Clone a remote reposities to your local to make changes in the work.
- You could be working in a separate branch.
- After changes made, you would then add the changes, commit and push the changes.
- You will seek approval to discuss and test before you do a merge to the main branch.

`git add` Add a new file in staging.

`git commit` Commit your changes after a git add .

`git push` Push your changes to the remote repository.

`git checkout` Switch to another branch in your working directory.